>> Jafar Husain: Let's go back, and
let's remind ourselves what
the problem was, right?
We have animations allowed,
we have this two dimensional tasks,
and we want to go down to this
nice stream of true false values.
animationsAllowed.
And it switches to false as
soon as you begin a new task.
And it switches back to true as soon as
all of the outstanding tasks are done, and
then it switches back to false as soon
as a new task begins and so on and so
on and so on.
That make sense?
So I was showing you guys
some helper functions, and
we just learned one which was concat.
Right?
And you can just take as many, if you have
two observables in your hot little hands,
you can just put them
together like two strings.
And distinctUntilChanged,
can anybody figure out how that works?
Can anybody describe
verbally how that works?
>> Student1: It looks like it is
waiting for the value to change, so
if it gets a new value it'll pass that on,
but
then until it hits something else
it won't pass those values on.
>> Jafar Husain: Right.
And we'll see why that
comes in handy later.
And scan, scan's one of my favorites.
Does anybody remember reduce?
How reduce works?
So if I take this,
>> Jafar Husain: and
I do this,
>> Jafar Husain: What am I gonna get?
>> Student2: Six.
>> Jafar Husain: Six,
yeah, absolutely right.
In our little modified version of
reduce that we use in JavaScript,
yes in our modified version of reduce that
we use in the previous class you actually
get an array of six.
Here you don't get six.
I made a mistake there I'm sorry, you
actually get all the intermediary values.
So scan is different than reduce because
instead of just giving you the last value
it gives you all the intermediary
values In the computation.
So basically, every value that was
returned by this function ever.
Does that make sense?
Do we feel like we got
a good handle on reduce?
Let's go over it real quick.
The way reduce works is it takes
the first value, and that becomes acc.
Takes the second value and
that becomes current, and runs them
through a function that combines them.
And what do we gout when we take one and
two and add them together?
We get three, and whatever comes out of
that function becomes acc the next time.
And so we see this thing where
the value comes out of the function and
then gets pumped back into the function,
right?
And then we take the next value off,
which is three, and
three plus three is six, and because
the stream is now ended, we get six.
The only difference with
scan is that it gives us
every intermediary value it passes as acc.
So we get one, three, and six.
Does that make sense?
So we're going to use scan.
Scan's super helpful.
Oops, I should have written scan there.
Scan's super helpful when
you want to count things or
keep track of things, right?
Imagine a progressively better standard
deviation over like a stalk string.
You'd use scan in general when you
are working with an infinite string.
Why wouldn't I use reduce for
an infinite string?
>> Student3: It'll never finish?
>> Jafar Husain: It will
never finish right?
Because reduced only gives you a value
when it's gone through the entire stream.
And so if I try and reduce Netflix's stock
price, I hope it'll never end, right?
So fingers crossed.
But if I wanted to get a gradually better
standard deviation over Netflix's stock
price I could use scan,
and then I'm just gonna get a gradually
better computation over time.
So with these three functions in mind,
let's see if we can now, and
the ones that you learned in the previous
class, things like switch map, concat all,
these things, we're gonna now see if
we can tackle animations allowed.
>> Student4: I have a quick question.
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah.
>> Student4: In RX is there
an operator that works like concat, but
it doesn't wait for
the one to finish before the other one?
>> Jafar Husain: Great question.
Awesome question.
Yes, there is, and it is merge.
>> Student4: Okay.
>> Jafar Husain: And
what we would get here,
I'm gonna actually get the smallest one.
To make things simpler.
>> Jafar Husain: Make sense?
>> Jafar Husain: Right?
Now concat and merge and
the cousins of the flattening operators
that we learned in the previous class.
Does everybody remember
the flattening operators?
There are three of them, and
they're really powerful because we
can solve most concurrency problems
with these three flattening operators.
The reason why we call them
flattening operators is they work on
two dimensional observables like the tasks
observable that we're working with
in the animationsAllowed example.
So they are.
>> Jafar Husain: I'm gonna do this
over here because Powerpoint coding is
annoying, and we're gonna make
ourselves a two-dimensional observable.
>> Jafar Husain: So
given this two-dimensional observable,
there are three operators.
Can anybody tell me what they are for
flattening two-dimensional observables?
There's more, but
these are the most common.
>> Student4: So
they accept the two-dimensional and
then just flatten it slight?
>> Jafar Husain: Flatten it down to one.
>> Student5: flatMap is one of them.
>> Jafar Husain: flatMap, yeah.
Actually, flatMap's-
>> Student4: mergeMap?
>> Jafar Husain: mergeMap, absolutely.
They're slightly modified in
the sense that they're basically
flattening the result of a map operation.
So I'm talking about just the basic one
that just takes the two-dimensional,
observable and flattens it down.
You have one, which is merge.
You have one, which is,
anyone want to yell it out?
>> Student1: Concat.
>> Jafar Husain: Concat.
And
then finally you have the most
common operator used in the UIs.
switchLatest.
This is definitely worth reviewing.
So anybody wanna guess what- Sorry
this is called mergeAll, concatAll.
Anyone wanna guess what
mergeAll's gonna produce here,
based on what merge produced a second ago?
>> Student1: Five, five,
three, five, two, five.
>> Jafar Husain: Five, five,
So merge is a lot like four, so
let's imagine there's some accident
on the freeway and
three of four lanes are all used up.
What happens, at least in a civil society?
What do we do?
Let's imagine each of these
as lanes of traffic, right?
And you're all merging down to one.
>> Student1: Trade off on which goes next.
>> Jafar Husain: Well,
basically whoever gets there first, so
that's one strategy if
you're bumper to bumper.
But whoever gets there first,
in general, right, can make it through.
So that's why we merge looks like this.
So basically as soon as data comes,
you subscribe to all of
the observables at the same time.
So you remember what we did with concat,
the first thing we did that was wrong,
which was we immediately
subscribed to all the observables?
That's not wrong in merge,
that's exactly what you do.
You subscribe to all those
observables at the same time.
And then whenever any
of them gives you data,
you just plummet through as soon as you
get data from any of the observables.
So that's why we see that
when they flatten it down,
they're all there in one stream in
the order on which the data arrives.
Anyone wanna take a guess as
to what concatALL does though?
Yeah?
>> Student4: It's gonna return the first
observable five, three, two, and then it's
gonna return, once that's done it's gonna
start on the second one, it's gonna return
five, five, and then once that's done it's
gonna return the third-
>> Jafar Husain: Yes.
>> Student4: Which is five.
>> Jafar Husain: ConcatAll is
like the cousin of concat.
Remember concat just takes two observables
or n observables and subscribes to one,
and when one completes it subscribes to
the other one and so on and so forth.
If you have a two-dimensional observable
what concatAll does is as soon as it gets
an inner observable it subscribes to it,
and
if it gets another inner observable while
it's still subscribed to the previous one,
it doesn't subscribe to it it
just puts it into an array.
And then when this one completes, then and
only then, does it subscribe to this one.
And that's why, incidentally,
we see this little time elongation here.
Notice that these three dots don't even
start because this is a cold observable.
It's not gonna even start
producing the data or
doing the work until we
call subscribe on it.
And so concatAll has the effect
of lengthening the observable
when we flatten it down.
Does that make sense?
So it's as if we took
every inner observable and
we just put it near the end of each other.
And this one is, by far, the most common
operator used in UIs, switchLatest.
>> Jafar Husain: Anybody wanna tell me
what you think this is gonna output?
>> Student4: Give yellow fives?
>> Jafar Husain: All fives.
As a matter of fact it will.
I keep forgetting to uninstall that thing.
It will give you five,
you know, I'm not sure,
you might actually be right
I'm trying to figure it out.
I think you are right.
Well done, sir.
I think it will give you all fives.
Yes.
Isn't that weird?
Why does it give you that?
>> Student1: Because when a new observable
comes along even though it's still going
on with the-
>> Jafar Husain: You know what,
I made a mistake.
Sorry to interrupt you.
One less five here.
No, no, sorry never mind I was right.
Go ahead you were saying.
>> Student1: So
whenever a new data stream comes in or
whenever a new observable comes in
it'll stop at whatever one it's on.
It only cares about updated data.
>> Jafar Husain: And how's it gonna stop?
Under the hood what-
>> Student1: Well I mean,
it's just gonna switch over to-
>> Jafar Husain: Switch over?
And if we were to go over and
implement switchLatest right now, and
this is a threat.
So you can tell me the answer or I'll have
to go and format it, nobody wants that.
What's it gonna do under
the hood to that observable
in order to stop getting data from it.
VS, which latest operator.
So it gets this int or observable,
you're 100% right, it subscribes to it.
And then when another inner
observable comes along,
how's it gonna make sure it doesn't
get any data from that previous one?
What's gonna stop it?
>> Student1: [CROSSTALK] and subscribe.
>> Jafar Husain: Subscribe,
absolutely, right?
>> Student4: Wouldn't
there be four fives then?
>> Jafar Husain: Good question,
why is there not four fives?
>> Student5: Because the second observable
started being subscribed to before
the first was able to [CROSSTALK].
>> Jafar Husain: Right, we don't switch
when we get the first piece of data,
we switch when we get a new observable,
and so we never got an opportunity
to get this five because right here,
another observable came along.
Good call man.
So, now why is switchLatest the most
commonly used operator on UIs?
Sorry?
>> Student4: That's how
the user interfaces work?
>> Jafar Husain: Yeah, the users change
their mind and most of the time,
you don't care about the last
thing they told you to do.
If the new thing they told you
to do supersedes that, right?
We see it all the time in UIs.
I open up a forum.
You start loading data,
and I show a loading bar.
In the meantime the user hits Back.
Do I want to get the results of
the network request anymore?
Nope.
In fact, if I didn't guard against getting
the result of that network request,
bad stuff might really happen, right?
Somebody might go back and
then we might try and load the data,
the DOM elements from the previous form.
It is very, very important to
avoid this race condition in UIs.
And so it is a good heuristic if you're
wondering what flattening operator to use,
right, until you really got
the solid fundamentals,
a good first guess is switchLatest
if you're on a UI, right?